README.md, before:

# rtiow - Ray Tracing in One Weekend

![book cover](img/first/18-final-scene.jpg)  
Rust port of RTIOW by Peter Shirley, v3.1.2, 2020-06-03  
https://raytracing.github.io/

Completed books are tagged as a release.

- [x] - *Ray Tracing in One Weekend*
- [ ] - *The Next Week*
- [ ] - *The Rest of Your Life*

### Table of Contents
1. [*Ray Tracing in One Weekend*](#oneweekend)
2. [*The Next Week*](#nextweek)
3. [*The Rest of Your Life*](#restofyourlife)

### Notes

I believe I've stayed close to the spirit of the book. I added multi-threading
with `rayon` for the last render of the first book. All renders after that were
multi-threaded.

<a name="oneweekend"></a>
## *Ray Tracing in One Weekend*

A primitive command line interface exists, scenes and threading need to be
adjusted by recompiling. Each flag is optional. It defaults to 100 samples and
384 pixel width, height will be calculated with an aspect ratio of 16:9 if not
specified. Arbitrary aspect ratios are supported.

```
cargo run --release -- [filename.ppm] [samples] [width] [height]
```

All images were done with 100 samples and 50 bounces.

Creating a blue to white background gradient  
![blue blend](img/first/00-blue-blend.jpg)  
Placing the first sphere in the scene  
![red sphere](img/first/01-red-sphere.jpg)  
Showing the normals of the sphere's surface  
![sphere normals](img/first/02-sphere-normals.jpg)  
Adding a ground plane with another large sphere  
![normal sphere ground](img/first/03-normal-sphere-ground.jpg)  
Multiple samples per pixel, anti-aliasing  
![multi sample](img/first/04-multi-sample.jpg)  
The first diffuse material  
![diffuse](img/first/05-diffuse.jpg)  
Gamma correcting the linear light  
![diffuse gamma correct](img/first/06-diffuse-gamma-correct.jpg)  
Improving the scattering calculation  
![diffuse random unit vector](img/first/07-diffuse-random-unit-vector.jpg)  
The first Lambert material  
![materials lambert](img/first/08-materials-lambert.jpg)  
Adding metallic materials  
![metals](img/first/09-metals.jpg)  
First pass of dielectric materials, light is only reflected  
![all refract](img/first/10-all-refract.jpg)  
Added the chance for refraction to occur  
![sometimes refract](img/first/11-sometimes-refract.jpg)  
Placed another sphere inside the dielectric to make a glass bubble effect  
![bubble](img/first/12-bubble.jpg)  
Added a Snell's law correction  
![snell](img/first/13-snell.jpg)  
Added camera controls to adjust the field of view  
![wide view](img/first/14-wide-view.jpg)  
Adjusting FOV for zooming out  
![distant view](img/first/15-distant-view.jpg)  
Zooming in with another FOV adjustment  
![zoom view](img/first/16-zoom-view.jpg)  
Depth of field blur is added  
![dof](img/first/17-dof.jpg)  
Final scene as on the cover of the book, with some personal touches added  
![final scene](img/first/18-final-scene.jpg)  


<a name="nextweek"></a>
## *The Next Week*

All images are 100 samples unless otherwise noted. With BVH and multi-threading,
sample count can be increased dramatically and still finish in a very tolerable
time.

I was better about saving the scenes in this, grouping the camera with it.
However, due to the nature of the book, enough incremental churn occurs that
it's not convenient to keep every camera, world, and rendering combination
pictured here.

I made an enum for the Perlin noise to allow for selection over the several
types made over the course of the chapter: trilinear, unfiltered,
net/camouflage, smooth, and marble.

<a name="chapter2"></a>
**Chapter 2:** Bouncing Spheres, simulating motion blur  
![bouncing spheres](img/second/00-bouncing-spheres.jpg)  
<a name="chapter4"></a>
**Chapter 4:** Added a checker texture to the ground,
implemented bounding volume hierarchies for massive render speedup in some
scenes, 400 samples  
![checkerboard floor](img/second/01-checker-world.jpg)  
Two checker spheres  
![checkered spheres](img/second/02-checker-spheres.jpg)  
<a name="chapter5"></a>
**Chapter 5:** Hashed Perlin noise  
![perlin noise squares](img/second/03-perlin-spheres.jpg)  
Playing with the previous scene, added motion blur to one sphere  
![perlin square with motion blur](img/second/04-perlin-spheres-motion.jpg)  
<a name="5.2"></a>
**5.2:** Perlin noise with trilinear interpolation.  
![perlin noise with trilinear filter](img/second/05-trilinear.jpg)  
<a name="5.3"></a>
**5.3:** Trilinear filtering with cubic Hermite  
![perlin trilinear filter smoothed](img/second/06-hermitian-smoothing.jpg)  
<a name="5.4"></a>
**5.4:** High frequency scaling for the noise, this is a scale of 20  
![perlin noise with higher frequency](img/second/07-frequency-scale-20.jpg)  
The book example seems to be a frequency of 4, determined through trial and
error  
![perlin with frequency to match book](img/second/08-frequency-scale-04.jpg)  
<a name="5.5"></a>
**5.5** Perlin noise with random unit vectors on lattice points  
![perlin with random unit vectors](img/second/09-random-vectors-lattice-points.jpg)  
<a name="5.6"></a>
**5.6** Substituting turbulence in for the noise function, not the intended
result as in the book  
![perlin with turbluence](img/second/10-turbulence-substitution.jpg)  
Multiplying turbulence directly by the color as illustrated in the book  
![perlin with turbluence direct](img/second/11-turbulence-direct.jpg)  
<a name="5.7"></a>
**5.7** Adjusting the phase of turbulence, making a marble texture  
![perlin turbulent marble texture](img/second/12-marbled-texture.jpg)  
<a name="chapter6"></a>
**Chapter 6:** Using images as textures  
![earth on a sphere](img/second/13-earth.jpg)  
<a name="chapter7"></a>
**Chapter 7:** Turning objects into lights, small rectangle light  
![rectangle light](img/second/14-rectangle-light.jpg)  
Adding a sphere to the scene, 1000 samples  
![sphere light](img/second/15-sphere-light.jpg)  
<a name="7.6"></a>
Noisy, empty Cornell box. Aspect ratio changed to 1:1. My result doesn't look
like the Cornell box in the book which is very shadowy.  
![sphere light](img/second/16-empty-box.jpg)  
Added flipped face material for less noise with Aarect planes. There doesn't
seem to be much a difference, I'm not sure where the discrepancy lies.  
![sphere light](img/second/17-flip-face.jpg)  

<a name="restofyourlife"></a>
## *The Rest of Your Life*

Commit message:

Chapter 8 - Instances Add primitive for Box objects Added blocks to Cornell box room Add rotation along the Y axis and translation class

README.md, after:

# rtiow - Ray Tracing in One Weekend

![book cover](img/first/18-final-scene.jpg)  
Rust port of RTIOW by Peter Shirley, v3.1.2, 2020-06-03  
https://raytracing.github.io/

Completed books are tagged as a release.

- [x] - *Ray Tracing in One Weekend*
- [ ] - *The Next Week*
- [ ] - *The Rest of Your Life*

### Table of Contents
1. [*Ray Tracing in One Weekend*](#oneweekend)
2. [*The Next Week*](#nextweek)
3. [*The Rest of Your Life*](#restofyourlife)

### Notes

I believe I've stayed close to the spirit of the book. I added multi-threading
with `rayon` for the last render of the first book. All renders after that were
multi-threaded.

<a name="oneweekend"></a>
## *Ray Tracing in One Weekend*

A primitive command line interface exists, scenes and threading need to be
adjusted by recompiling. Each flag is optional. It defaults to 100 samples and
384 pixel width, height will be calculated with an aspect ratio of 16:9 if not
specified. Arbitrary aspect ratios are supported.

```
cargo run --release -- [filename.ppm] [samples] [width] [height]
```

All images were done with 100 samples and 50 bounces.

Creating a blue to white background gradient  
![blue blend](img/first/00-blue-blend.jpg)  
Placing the first sphere in the scene  
![red sphere](img/first/01-red-sphere.jpg)  
Showing the normals of the sphere's surface  
![sphere normals](img/first/02-sphere-normals.jpg)  
Adding a ground plane with another large sphere  
![normal sphere ground](img/first/03-normal-sphere-ground.jpg)  
Multiple samples per pixel, anti-aliasing  
![multi sample](img/first/04-multi-sample.jpg)  
The first diffuse material  
![diffuse](img/first/05-diffuse.jpg)  
Gamma correcting the linear light  
![diffuse gamma correct](img/first/06-diffuse-gamma-correct.jpg)  
Improving the scattering calculation  
![diffuse random unit vector](img/first/07-diffuse-random-unit-vector.jpg)  
The first Lambert material  
![materials lambert](img/first/08-materials-lambert.jpg)  
Adding metallic materials  
![metals](img/first/09-metals.jpg)  
First pass of dielectric materials, light is only reflected  
![all refract](img/first/10-all-refract.jpg)  
Added the chance for refraction to occur  
![sometimes refract](img/first/11-sometimes-refract.jpg)  
Placed another sphere inside the dielectric to make a glass bubble effect  
![bubble](img/first/12-bubble.jpg)  
Added a Snell's law correction  
![snell](img/first/13-snell.jpg)  
Added camera controls to adjust the field of view  
![wide view](img/first/14-wide-view.jpg)  
Adjusting FOV for zooming out  
![distant view](img/first/15-distant-view.jpg)  
Zooming in with another FOV adjustment  
![zoom view](img/first/16-zoom-view.jpg)  
Depth of field blur is added  
![dof](img/first/17-dof.jpg)  
Final scene as on the cover of the book, with some personal touches added  
![final scene](img/first/18-final-scene.jpg)  


<a name="nextweek"></a>
## *The Next Week*

All images are 100 samples unless otherwise noted. With BVH and multi-threading,
sample count can be increased dramatically and still finish in a very tolerable
time.

I was better about saving the scenes in this, grouping the camera with it.
However, due to the nature of the book, enough incremental churn occurs that
it's not convenient to keep every camera, world, and rendering combination
pictured here.

I made an enum for the Perlin noise to allow for selection over the several
types made over the course of the chapter: trilinear, unfiltered,
net/camouflage, smooth, and marble.

<a name="chapter2"></a>
**Chapter 2:** Bouncing Spheres, simulating motion blur  
![bouncing spheres](img/second/00-bouncing-spheres.jpg)  
<a name="chapter4"></a>
**Chapter 4:** Added a checker texture to the ground,
implemented bounding volume hierarchies for massive render speedup in some
scenes, 400 samples  
![checkerboard floor](img/second/01-checker-world.jpg)  
Two checker spheres  
![checkered spheres](img/second/02-checker-spheres.jpg)  
<a name="chapter5"></a>
**Chapter 5:** Hashed Perlin noise  
![perlin noise squares](img/second/03-perlin-spheres.jpg)  
Playing with the previous scene, added motion blur to one sphere  
![perlin square with motion blur](img/second/04-perlin-spheres-motion.jpg)  
<a name="5.2"></a>
**5.2:** Perlin noise with trilinear interpolation.  
![perlin noise with trilinear filter](img/second/05-trilinear.jpg)  
<a name="5.3"></a>
**5.3:** Trilinear filtering with cubic Hermite  
![perlin trilinear filter smoothed](img/second/06-hermitian-smoothing.jpg)  
<a name="5.4"></a>
**5.4:** High frequency scaling for the noise, this is a scale of 20  
![perlin noise with higher frequency](img/second/07-frequency-scale-20.jpg)  
The book example seems to be a frequency of 4, determined through trial and
error  
![perlin with frequency to match book](img/second/08-frequency-scale-04.jpg)  
<a name="5.5"></a>
**5.5** Perlin noise with random unit vectors on lattice points  
![perlin with random unit vectors](img/second/09-random-vectors-lattice-points.jpg)  
<a name="5.6"></a>
**5.6** Substituting turbulence in for the noise function, not the intended
result as in the book  
![perlin with turbluence](img/second/10-turbulence-substitution.jpg)  
Multiplying turbulence directly by the color as illustrated in the book  
![perlin with turbluence direct](img/second/11-turbulence-direct.jpg)  
<a name="5.7"></a>
**5.7** Adjusting the phase of turbulence, making a marble texture  
![perlin turbulent marble texture](img/second/12-marbled-texture.jpg)  
<a name="chapter6"></a>
**Chapter 6:** Using images as textures  
![earth on a sphere](img/second/13-earth.jpg)  
<a name="chapter7"></a>
**Chapter 7:** Turning objects into lights, small rectangle light  
![rectangle light](img/second/14-rectangle-light.jpg)  
Adding a sphere to the scene, 1000 samples  
![sphere light](img/second/15-sphere-light.jpg)  
<a name="7.6"></a>
Noisy, empty Cornell box. Aspect ratio changed to 1:1. My result doesn't look
like the Cornell box in the book which is very shadowy  
![sphere light](img/second/16-empty-box.jpg)  
Added flipped face material for less noise with Aarect planes. There doesn't
seem to be much a difference, I'm not sure where the discrepancy lies  
![sphere light](img/second/17-flip-face.jpg)  
Cornell box, now with blocks but not rotated, 1000 samples  
![sphere light](img/second/18-cornell-blocks.jpg)  
Standard Cornell box scene with rotated boxes, 1000 samples  
![cornell box scene](img/second/19-cornell-rotated.jpg)  


<a name="restofyourlife"></a>
## *The Rest of Your Life*
